[dramatic music playing]
[music continues to play]
[Wilkey] May your souls rejoice
in heaven.
We baptise you for
and on behalf of these souls...
who are dead.
[eerie music playing]
[water gurgling]
[gasps. pants]
[Kelder] Let these dead souls
enter heaven
by using your body as a vessel.
Let them speak forth anthems
of eternal praise
to the King Emmanuel
who hath ordained.
[all] And enable us to
redeem them out of their prison.
For the prisoners shall go free.
Where are the other girls?
[Kelder] Not much longer. Elise.
Patricia Whitlock.
[all] Patricia Whitlock.
-[water gurgling]
-[gasps]
[Wilkey] Eleanor Golding.
[all] Eleanor Golding.
-[gasps]
-[water gurgling]
[dramatic music playing]
[Wilkey] Heidi Crowe.
[all] Heidi Crowe.
[water splashing]
[tense music]
This is too far.
I have just come
from the elders.
They all agree.
Larue.
[Elise gasps]
[screams]
[Kelder grunts]
[grunts] Help me!
[eerie music playing]
[music crescendo]
Help me! Help me! Help...
[silence]
["How Would You Know"
by Margaret Lewis playing]
♪ You say ♪
♪ Scarlett's my name ♪
♪ Temptation ♪
♪ My game ♪
♪ That my love ♪
♪ Is free as dirt ♪
♪ That I am not worth
The salt of the earth ♪
♪ You say
There's nothin' in me ♪
♪ But a desire ♪
♪ Go on to cheat ♪
-[Adam] Pace.
-[door opens]
-[Adam] Or you keep pace.
-[door closes]
-[Adam] All right. later.
-[phone clicking]
-Good morning. beautiful.
-Morning.
New piece? How's it going?
It's going. [sighs. scoffs]
Is this. uh. you for today?
Uh. this is the morning.
The afternoon's work
will be done in the garden.
I think.
[Adam] Okay.
Very cute.
What about tonight's work?
-[Elise] Hmm.
-[Adam] Oh. what's this?
[Elise] Oh. I don't know.
-Does that hurt?
-Ow!
I don't know. just...
Hey. stop. [chuckles]
♪ Or love me too ♪
-You know.
-[Elise] Hmm?
I could be convinced
to stay a little longer.
Not now.
I'm so tired.
I haven't showered.
-I'm gross.
-No. you're not gross.
You're gorgeous.
[Elise] No.
Okay. Cool. Uh...
gotta go.
I will bring
something back for dinner.
I love you.
Love you more.
♪ But don't say
I'm not worthy of your shadow ♪
♪ That I'm the kind of girl
He can love ♪
♪ And never marry ♪
[dogs barking]
[sighs]
[trowel thuds]
[dramatic music playing]
[handbrake ratcheting]
-[Adam sighs]
-[keys clattering]
Honey?
[sighs]
[Elise digging]
[tense music playing]
Hey. Elise! Honey!
Hey. hey. hey! Hey!
-Stop! Elise!
-[gasps]
[Adam] You're okay.
-[pants]
-[sighs]
No. no. no.
I... I was just in the garden.
I was just in the garden.
I was...
-I was just in the garden.
-Hey. hey. you're okay.
It's okay. baby. It's okay.
[gasps]
[dramatic music playing]
[Elise] I haven't had any issues
with my memory for ten years.
Every time I wake up.
I've either totally humiliated
myself...
-hurt myself...
-[pen scratching]
...or something worse.
Has...
something else happened?
The other morning.
I was in the garage.
And I smelled
something horrible.
And I found something.
It was the neighbour's.
I killed that poor little dog.
I can't live like this.
Well. Elise. I'm gonna
have to be honest with you.
The episodes
seem to be lasting longer
and becoming more violent.
We're close to thinking about...
the hospital until this
improves.
What. like an institution?
[chuckles] No. I...
I can't do that.
No. I... I won't do that. No.
There is one last thing
we can try.
You know. there's a reason
why you can't remember
much of your experience
in the church.
Your mind is suppressing
these memories to protect you.
But why is it just
some of the memories?
I can remember food that I ate
and things I said.
but when I try to think
of people. names and faces.
everything is just blank.
We don't know
why some memories are clear
and others are just... gone.
These blackouts...
are a way
for this unresolved trauma
to force its way to the surface.
Other survivors
who have left the FLDS.
many of whom are my patients.
have had similar experiences.
Now consider what you told me
about your lack of sex drive.
Which Adam is fed up with.
I mean. he's supportive.
but everyone has a limit.
Your strict upbringing
within the FLDS has caused
this suppression
in your sexuality.
It's not unusual.
And it's not even
the most important thing here...
but a common indicator
of past trauma.
These repressions are causing
these issues
in your life. Elise.
And you need to unearth
these secrets.
I'd like to try
an alternative form of therapy.
I found some healers
from your old church.
Located right outside
of Haventon.
And I'd like to contact them.
-What?
-[Malcolm] Yes.
I think you need to tackle this
at the source.
From where your trauma began.
FLDS?
Fundamentalist healers?
The same homophobic.
polygamous freaks
that kicked you out of
the Mormon church
in the first place.
Not... only does he want
to put you back near them.
he wants to have them
give you hallucinogens.
Yeah. I know. It's insane.
What even is Datura root?
Apparently it's like
the local version of ayahuasca.
[Adam] "Datura has been used for
centuries by Native Americans
to induce visions".
"Modern use is said to help
with depression. MS".
I just don't see
how forcing you back
into their world can help.
I mean. these people are crazy.
Yeah. but what if
I have to do this
just to stay out of a hospital?
I have never taken
drugs like that before.
What happens if I freak out
or something?
[Adam] Hey. Hey. listen.
We're going to
figure this out. okay?
You're not going to have
to do it alone.
and you're not going to
any fucking nut house.
It's your choice.
But if you do decide to do it...
I will do it with you.
Okay?
[soft music playing]
-[wood thudding]
-[Adam gasps]
[wood clattering]
[clattering]
[Adam] Elise?
[dramatic music playing]
[Adam] Honey?
You okay?
I can't do this anymore.
[sobs]
[cries]
[sighs]
-Uh-huh. Hand him over.
-Oh. yeah.
You can share the drive
with Gwen.
[Adam] Yeah.
if she ever gets here.
Sure we need someone else
in on this?
-You know. I can handle it.
-Yeah. I know.
But I don't want to put
any extra pressure on you.
Might be good
to have someone else there.
-And besides. she offered so...
-[car door closes]
-Hmm.
-[footsteps approaching]
[Adam] Look who decided
to show up.
[Gwen] Hey. sorry I'm late.
Hey. babe.
[Elise] Thanks for coming.
It means a lot.
-Oh. my God. of course.
-Hey. Gwen.
I didn't know
you were coming.
Don't you have a crystal
convention or something
to attend this weekend?
I think we got this.
Oh. oh. so you're trusting
those FLDS fanatics
to be the sober ones when
you guys are off your faces?
Good point.
[Gwen] So. I'll stay clean
and make sure everyone's
on the up and up.
Capisce?
Well. in that case.
welcome aboard. chaperone.
The moon is rising.
Hands need to be held.
I say we get this show
on the road.
Shall we?
-[footsteps receding]
-[car door opens]
[Gwen] Come on!
[dramatic music playing]
[music continues to play]
[upbeat music
playing over speakers]
Sounds like a rough one
the other night.
Fingers felt like I rubbed them
on a cheese grater for an hour.
But apart from that.
I'm just peachy.
[phone vibrates]
Healers are confirmed.
7:00 p.m. sharp in Haventon.
It's happening.
Whoa.
Check this out.
-Should we stop?
-No. we don't have time.
They'll be fine.
[dramatic music playing]
[birds chirping]
[soft music playing
over speakers]
[door opens. closes]
[footsteps approaching]
Morning. Mother.
What did you do to your hair?
I got it cut. Do you like it?
You look like a little boy.
Like a ten-year-old child.
How are you supposed to marry
if you don't look like a man?
I see your friend. Jacob.
has taken his third wife
just last week.
-Mother.
-And here you are. Single.
Still.
What is this?
Our new patient.
We no longer perform
the service. end of the matter.
Mother. look.
It's Elise.
Elise Decker.
It is meant to be.
An explicit act
of Heavenly Father.
-He is calling upon us.
-No.
I remember her.
She was so pretty.
A kind girl.
And if she is in need.
then we should help.
Because it was my fault
that she--
Silence!
You did your duty
to Heavenly Father.
Her kind will find no help here.
End of the matter.
[dramatic music playing]
[Gwen] How much longer?
-[Adam] "Are we there yet"?
-[Gwen] Shut up.
I think I see it up here.
This is it.
This is Haventon.
[Adam] Well.
I guess I was expecting
less forest
and more town. but...
okay.
How is this even here?
There was a river
that ran through over there.
Flashed in 1910 and washed away
all the buildings.
Or so I was told.
The baptistery. somehow...
was the only thing
that survived.
It's exactly the same.
I think this is
going to be great. Elise.
A confrontation of yourself.
your ego. and what ails you.
You know. exposure therapy.
It's a real thing.
It can really work.
Are you okay?
Yeah.
This is all just a bit intense.
We'll take it one step
at a time. you and me.
[sighs]
Okay.
Guess I'll just unpack
by myself. then.
[sinister music playing]
[Gwen] Crazy.
Smells horrible.
What is it?
It's a...
baptismal font.
You know. dunk you in...
lift you out
into the comforting hands
of Heavenly Father.
kind of thing.
To each their own.
Don't worry.
The Mormons will get you
when you're dead.
Wait. what's that
supposed to mean?
"Except that a man be born
of water and of the Spirit...
he cannot enter
into the kingdom of God".
You've lost it.
If you're not baptised
in the Mormon church.
then you can't enter
their heaven.
So what they do is they accept
the names of deceased people.
Non-Mormon friends.
Anne Frank is a favourite.
And then they will save
these poor souls
by baptising
a living person by proxy.
So. they dunk some living person
as a stand-in body
to get the dead person
into heaven?
Baptism for the dead. baby.
Have these people
never heard of consent?
Geez.
Is this knocking loose
some memories?
So many things are cloudy.
I can remember parts
of my upbringing...
like how my father
was super strict
because he was a man
of the community. and...
it was expected.
And how my mother
was so obedient to him.
And one of the last things
I can remember is the baptism.
Which. for some reason.
was held here that night
instead of in the town.
like usual.
I can't imagine
what that's like.
To be missing a chunk
of your life like that.
I remember most of it.
But...
when I look around the room...
I can't see any faces.
I don't know who's there.
Jesus.
Disturbing. right?
On that note. um...
do you think maybe we can
explore someplace else?
You go.
I'm gonna stay for a minute.
Are you sure?
Exposure therapy. right?
I'm okay.
Okay.
[footsteps receding]
[door opens. closes]
[ominous music playing]
No way.
[Clara] Follow me!
-[chuckles]
[man 3] Elise!
-Quick! [chuckles]
-[chuckles]
[dramatic music playing]
[man 3] Elise!
Coming. Father!
I know you.
[fingers tapping]
[eerie music playing]
[Adam] Elise!
[car door opens]
-[Alma grunts]
-Mother?
-[car door closes]
-You carry our name with you.
Best someone who knows
what they're doing
deals with the gentiles.
Let us be done with it.
[car engine starting]
[Gwen]
Was she a friend of yours?
I think so.
I think her name was...
Clara?
My head's like
a melting pot right now.
There's lots of memories
flooding in.
I can't believe
this is all still here.
[Elise] Hmm.
[Gwen] Hopefully this jogs
some more stuff.
[Adam] It's a good thing
we came then.
Yeah.
We should set up camp.
Hey.
Everything okay?
Yeah.
Couldn't curb the hipster thing
for one weekend.
brought a flashlight
like a normal human being?
Kerosene light
is higher quality.
What does that even mean?
Think listening to vinyl
versus streaming.
-Jesus.
-Hmm.
[indistinct chatter]
[sinister music playing]
You know. I actually can't see.
-Uh-huh! There we go.
-[Gwen] Mm-hmm.
-All right. So this lines up...
-There.
-...to this.
-[car engine revving]
-Right on time.
-[car door opens]
You must be Hyrum.
We've been texting. I'm Elise.
You don't remember me.
Uh. no. sorry.
-I. uh...
-Hey.
I'm Adam. This is Gwen.
Oh. this is my mother...
Sister Jessop. She. uh...
You can call her Alma.
We will go gather our equipment.
We'll meet you inside.
[footsteps receding]
-[Gwen] Thank you.
-[car door opens]
-You ready for this?
-[car door closes]
I remember the names
being read out.
And being cold
in the water. and then...
These blackouts
are ruining my life.
I really hope this works.
I'm scared what I'll do.
You have been through so much.
But you have called upon us
because we are healers
of the natural order.
Followers
of the true Mormon faith
that requires
observations of tenets
set down by our founder
and Prophet. Joseph Smith.
Tenets being the belief
in psychedelics.
[Hyrum] Yes.
what you speak is true.
But Joseph Smith himself
was a classic shaman.
In that he promised his converts
visions of the Lord.
And what better way
to fulfil that pledge
than through the employment
of entheogen-infused sacraments?
-Hallucinogens.
-Yeah. I got it. Gwen.
So that explains
why early Mormons
experienced visions of angels
and spiritual ecstasies.
They were drugged.
Why hadn't I heard
of this before?
Well...
you might have
had you paid attention to me.
I'm... I'm sorry?
In grade school...
I lived two blocks
from you in Spring Creek.
Once I even gifted you
pine nut sweets.
I'm... I'm sorry. I don't
remember much from that time.
[Alma] Hyrum...
please.
Unfortunately. the church.
ever self-conscious
of outside prejudices.
banned such devices.
requiring my forefathers
to choose their own path.
the path of true faith.
as founded by our prophet.
Nowadays. it is our mandate
to help those in need
achieve balance and relief
or whatever ails them
through the use
of non-traditional.
non-Western medicines.
Henbane. Datura root.
All in the name
of Heavenly Father.
Trust that we will do
everything in our power to...
bring you relief...
Elise.
[Alma whispering]
What is she doing?
We offer our souls to you.
[Hyrum] The Datura medicine
is a powerful hallucinogen.
It'll lead you
to an altered state
of spiritual consciousness.
But you must know what you want
to learn about yourselves.
[Alma whispering continues]
How long does it last?
Several hours.
You'll feel the effects soon.
Then you'll be taken
into the dream state.
But you will be returned
by daybreak.
[Alma whispering continues]
To relief.
-To relief.
[dramatic music playing]
-[Adam grunts]
-[Elise clears throat]
-[sinister music playing]
-[Elise retching. coughing]
Are you okay?
[Alma whispering continues]
Do not fight the medicine.
Listen to it.
Enter its world.
Communicate with the spirits
and with our Lord.
I'm so sick.
What am I supposed
to be feeling?
[Hyrum] Everyone is different.
Everyone is different.
Look at me.
Breathe. Breathe.
Some people feel euphoria.
[echoes]
Some are anxious. [echoes]
Some feel
impending doom. [echoes]
I can't do this.
-[chuckles]
-[Adam] I can't.
I'm a fucking fraud.
Welcome the visions.
Embrace every emotion.
Reach deep
into your core understanding
and let your self-being feel.
[dramatic music playing]
You okay?
I don't know.
[ethereal music playing]
Whoa!
[gasps]
-[Clara chuckles]
-[chuckles] Hey!
[chuckles]
-[chuckles]
What's wrong?
She's coming.
Who?
[Clara] She'll be here soon.
She'll show you.
Show me what?
Everything.
-Elise. what happened?
-She must have torn internally.
What the fuck do you mean
torn internally?
-I... I don't... I don't know!
-I don't feel well.
-Something's not right.
-Mother! Mother. help.
[Gwen]
Elise. you're gonna be okay.
Everything's gonna be all right.
-[grunts]
-[Gwen] What are you doing?
[Alma] Righting a wrong.
-Stop touching.
-Let her walk.
[pants]
You are a vessel
of Heavenly Father.
-[grunts]
-Mother.
Silence.
[grunts]
[Alma]
We must get it out of her.
We must get it out of her now.
[Gwen] Get what out of her?
[shudders]
[Elise choking]
-[coughs]
-[Gwen shudders]
[screams. sighs]
[Gwen] Elise. breathe.
-Hey. breathe.
-[pants]
[eerie music playing]
[Gwen] Hey. say something.
Elise.
[tense music playing]
There's someone inside.
[shudders]
You're good. We're here.
[sighs]
How do you feel?
-Elise?
-[shudders] Okay. I'm okay.
[sighs]
I actually feel...
better.
Different.
Your illness shouldn't
trouble you any longer.
Thank you.
Both of you.
[Alma] Now.
you must leave this place.
[soft music playing]
Evil is here. Hyrum.
And it is my burden to bear.
My burden.
[footsteps receding]
[chuckles]
Shit. What time is it?
[Adam] Nearly midday.
What? Fuck.
Wait. where's Elise?
You didn't just let her go off
on her own. did you?
Don't worry.
She's right over there.
[Gwen] Is she okay?
Truthfully?
I don't know.
What the hell
was that last night?
Scared me shitless.
Learn anything?
[Adam] Apparently...
I'm an egotistical monster.
Aren't we all?
Morning. Hey. [chuckles]
-[Adam] How are you feeling?
-I'm feeling good. Yeah.
See? What did I say
from the beginning?
-Embrace the mysticism.
-Your eyes are so clear.
It's like I had this weight
in my stomach all these years.
It was... causing
so much dread and stress.
and I knew it had something
to do with the blackouts.
and now it's just gone.
Honey. It's amazing.
Hmm.
Should we. uh.
go get you to see a doctor?
I mean. the stuff
that came out of you last night.
Sorry. I don't mean
to bring it up.
-I just--
-No. it was. um.
It was seriously messed up.
But honestly. I feel great.
Like the best I have in years.
I'll go and see a doctor
when we get back.
just to be sure. I promise.
Honestly. this is even better
than I expected.
-[Elise chuckles]
-Should we. uh. get going?
Uh. slow down. I know it's
nowhere near
bourbon time. but...
-we need to celebrate.
-What?
[Adam] You up for it?
Screw it. [chuckles]
Can't we do that
when we get back?
I am so proud of you.
You deserve this.
I love you.
Love you more.
[ominous music playing]
[upbeat music
playing over speakers]
To Elise and her healing.
-Cheers.
That Datura jogged
a few memories.
Things I'd forgotten.
[Gwen] Like what?
Um...
You can tell us anything.
Okay.
Clara.
I remember more details.
What details?
Well. she was
the Bishop's daughter.
And we...
we're more than friends.
I... I think it was sexual.
Wait. You...
you slept
with the Bishop's daughter?
I think so. I don't know.
[chuckles] Wait.
Wait. what happened. girl?
Spill the tea.
When I think of her...
all I feel is...
I don't know.
Um. feelings about...
-sex. [chuckles]
-[chuckles]
Is this why you
and I have issues with this?
I mean. with us?
-What?
-[Adam] You know exactly
what I mean.
Is this why you
and I don't have sex anymore?
Uh. Adam. can we talk
about this later?
Is there any other secrets
you're hiding?
[dramatic music playing]
This is as much of a surprise
to me as it is to you.
Guys. maybe I should go
for a walk.
You haven't looked
at me once in years.
Every single pass
I make is shot down.
Every single one.
It's like the thought
of kissing me makes you cringe.
-That is not true.
-[Adam] And now I find out
you're so into sex it got you
kicked out of the church.
That is not what I said.
you prick!
[Gwen] I'm just gonna go
for a walk.
No. stay.
-I'll go.
-[cup clangs]
-[footsteps receding]
-Shit.
[Elise] Where are we going?
-[chuckling]
-[Clara] Come on!
[dramatic music playing]
Praise be.
Isn't it amazing?
And look.
-Elise.
-[Elise gasps] Jesus.
Listen. I don't know
what happened.
No. no. no.
wait. wait. wait. Listen...
what I did back there.
I was out of line.
Okay? I...
Your stuff. your past.
it's yours.
It's not my place to judge
or feel insecure about.
And it was my shit.
and I took it out on you.
And I'm a dick.
Truthfully. I'm just happy
you're feeling better. and...
I hope that you can forgive me.
Elise.
Hey.
I want something. Adam.
Anything.
What can I do?
[Elise grunts]
-[dramatic music playing]
-[Adam groans]
[belt clattering]
This is for me. not you.
-[sighs]
-[grunts]
[moans]
Fuck.
[door opens]
Hello?
[door creaking]
Oh. Elise. you naughty girl.
-[door closes]
-[Gwen] Hey!
-[door knocks]
Help me!
-Somebody open the door!
-[door knocks]
[matches clattering]
[Gwen] Help!
-Damn it. Shit.
-[matches clattering]
[Gwen breathes heavily]
[Larue]
Do you feel Heavenly Father?
-[Gwen screaming]
-[ominous music playing]
-[door knocks]
-[Gwen] Let me out!
Let me out!
[Gwen screaming] Let me out!
-Help me!
-Gwen. we're here!
-[gasps]
-It's okay. You're okay.
What the fuck?
God. that really scared
the shit out of me.
We're here. okay?
What did you see in there?
I don't know. Um...
Nothing. nothing. I just...
Oh. God. I'm obviously losing
my fucking mind.
No. no. no one
is losing their mind.
We're all good.
Let's go.
[footsteps receding]
[ominous boom]
Guys. what the fuck is this?
[sinister music playing]
There's no way.
[Elise]
This one's head's been skewered.
This one's had its head crushed.
Someone's fucking with us.
[car engine clicking]
See? Nothing.
It's definitely the battery.
Someone must have left
the lights on last night.
You left the lights
on last night.
Well call AAA.
Let's get this fixed
so we can leave.
No. we're in the middle
of nowhere.
It'll take forever for them
to get out here.
We could call Hyrum.
Huh?
Seriously? You want me
to call that weirdo?
I'll call him.
He has to be closer
than anyone else.
and I'm sure
he'd be happy to help.
Great idea.
Sooner the better.
-[Elise] Hmm.
-[car door closes]
[dramatic music playing]
You should leave it running
for at least a half an hour.
You don't want to stall on
the side of one of these roads.
Listen. you should know.
Mother confessed to seeing
a spirit latched onto you.
It took great effort.
but she removed it.
Excuse me?
[Hyrum] You can feel it.
can't you?
Her illness is not a joke
to be toyed with.
This is no joke.
She removed the spirit
that was living inside you.
Listen. I think it's time
that you leave.
You should go.
Mm-hmm.
Well. I suggest
that you all do the same.
Because whatever
that thing was...
it's free now...
to do as it pleases.
Just look
what it's done already.
[car door opens. closes]
-[car engine starting]
-Hyrum...
I know this is
gonna sound weird. but...
do you remember a girl
named Clara from Spring Creek?
You should clear out of here...
-as soon as you can.
-[car engine starting]
[Adam] That guy's batshit.
We should probably pack up camp.
Do you guys mind
if I take one last look around?
Elise. we need to leave.
like. now.
Hyrum said we need to run the
car for at least half an hour.
Probably don't need to run
the car for half an hour.
Look. I know
this is gonna sound nuts...
but I need to learn more
about what happened to Clara.
This is the first time I've had
any memories of my past.
Do you know what that's like.
to not know who you are?
-Elise.
-[Elise] Please?
We'll leave before dark.
I promise.
[dramatic music playing]
[music continues to play]
I would like
to bear my testimony...
that I know the church is true.
This sin is great...
but I ask for forgiveness
in the Telestial Kingdom
in return
for a life lived faithful
to our Heavenly Father
and to our Prophet Warren Jeffs.
I... I must beg for it...
for there is no other way.
I say this...
in the name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.
[sinister music playing]
Take my offering.
Grant my family peace.
[chair thuds]
-[dramatic music playing]
-[wood clattering]
Clara. what happened to you?
-[garage door closing]
-[handbrake ratcheting]
[dramatic music playing]
[Hyrum] I'm back. Mother.
You were right
about those gentiles.
They haven't the faintest...
Mother!
-Oh. no. no. no. no!
-[coughs]
[Hyrum] Oh. what have you done?
No. what have you done?
What have you done?
-[grunts]
-Okay. you're gonna be okay.
You're gonna be okay.
-You're gonna be okay.
-[sobs]
[Hyrum] Uncle.
mother's hurt real bad.
-[coughs]
-Gather the family. come quick.
Okay.
[bucket clattering]
[sinister music playing]
[Gwen] Oh. there she is.
Adam wouldn't let me break down
camp until you got back.
Can we please go now?
[Adam] You okay?
I just need to be
by myself for a minute.
[footsteps receding]
[choir] ♪ Anywhere with Jesus
I can safely go ♪
♪ Anywhere he leads me
In this world below ♪
♪ Anywhere without him
Dearest joy ♪
I need to speak with her.
♪ Anywhere with Jesus
I am not afraid ♪
I need to speak with her! Now!
-[Alma wheezing]
-[ominous music playing]
Why?
The witch grows stronger.
Hyrum...
and will reclaim its host.
What do you speak of?
What witch?
The spirit we removed. Larue.
Larue? Who is Larue?
We were told she was
a settler of Haventon...
a devoted member of the church.
and a mentor to the young women.
[sinister music playing]
[Alma] It was not known
to the other settlers.
but her deep devotion
to the doctrine and covenants
masked a diseased mind.
that of a witch.
The bodies were never found.
She consumed them.
That night.
your great-great-grandfather
and his search party came upon
all that remained
of the young girls.
[ominous music playing]
In her final breath...
Larue vowed that even death
would not stop her
taking revenge on the church.
We held Elise's baptism
for the dead ritual
at the old font in Haventon.
so as not to sully
our own temple with her sin.
It was me who gave
the witch's name to be spoken.
to shame the girl Elise
for what she did.
[sobs] I did not know the witch
would claim her as a host.
And now Larue
will claim her again.
-[Larue] Alma.
-[gasps]
[dramatic music playing]
[gasps]
[Hyrum] What's wrong?
Mother?
No. mother.
No.
-[Alma sighs]
-[Hyrum] No. no. [sobs] No.
No. no. no. no. no. no.
[dramatic music playing]
[Gwen] We need to leave.
She's been in there for like
an hour. What is she doing?
-Say something.
-[Adam] Don't worry.
We're leaving soon.
-[sighs]
-Adam.
-Just hold on a sec.
Hey.
Just checking in.
Everything okay?
I'm fine.
Uh.
Gwen's a little weirded out.
Thinking we should hit the road.
Yeah. okay.
All right.
Adam...
thank you...
for your support today.
I know it was a weird request.
I'm sorry
for being so fucked up.
No. No. no. no. If anything...
I'm the one
who should be apologising.
I just maybe thought
more memories
would come back to me.
You know what I mean?
Like some kind of closure?
[Adam] Yeah.
No. I... I get it.
And...
I'm sorry again
for losing my shit.
I'm a horrible drunk.
I admit it.
I love you.
Love you more.
Uh...
Can I take a quick leak
and then pack the car?
Okay.
[footsteps receding]
[urinating]
-[zip zipping]
-[Adam gasps] Jesus. Gwen.
Not the time
to be sneaking up on people.
[door opens. closes]
[Gwen] I've been sitting here
patiently the whole time.
Just waiting.
Endlessly waiting.
[Adam] What is it
that you want me to do?
Oh. my God. it's too much.
Okay. I...
I'm... I'm done.
I won't wait any longer.
Gwen. I am doing the best
that I can.
Just please try to calm down.
-[Gwen] Jesus.
-[Adam] Hey. hey. hey.
Hey...
nearly there.
-No.
-[Adam] Oh.
[Gwen] The deal was once Elise
was healthy and better.
you would leave her.
I'm not going to wait
another four months.
[Adam] Gwen. it's been
less than 24 hours. It's...
[grunts]
Elise. listen to me.
-[Elise] How could you?
-Just hear me out.
-Stay away from me.
-Fuck.
-What the fuck did we do?
-Adam. stop.
[Elise sobs]
[sniffles]
-[dramatic music playing]
-[Clara] Elise. Elise.
[Elise] Are you sure
we're alone?
Alone as a shepherd
without his flock.
I love you.
[ominous music playing]
[inaudible]
[thunder rumbling]
I'm sorry I'm late.
The rain just came.
Father?
John 4:18 says...
"There is no fear in love.
But perfect love
casteth out fear.
because fear hath torment".
I love her.
And she loves me.
Please. Father.
The young girl said
you bullied her into it.
That it was all your idea.
No. that's not true.
She would...
she would never say that.
I didn't do anything wrong.
"What is right holds no water
if in the eyes of the church
it is wrong."
[door opens]
No. no. no. no. no. no.
Please. Father. please
don't let them take me away.
Please don't do this to me.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [cries]
Please. please. I'll be better.
You'll be staying
in the compound
until tomorrow afternoon...
when the orphanage worker
arrives to pick you up.
I want you out of my house.
No. no. no. Mother. please
don't let them take me away.
Please. [cries]
Please. Daddy. No.
Please. no.
-[screams] No! No!
-[door opens. closes]
[thunder rumbling]
[dramatic music playing]
Maybe we come back
in the morning for her.
Leave the campsite set up?
What do you think?
We're not going anywhere. Gwen.
We're going to wait here
until she comes back.
Well. you're sure as shit
not staying with me?
Hey...
I really need your support
right now. okay?
It's been
a really tough night for me.
Oh. fuck off. Adam.
Go wait in the car.
Gwen. come on.
Please.
[sighs]
Asshole!
Unbelievable. How could you be
so careless. you fucking prick?
Fuck.
[fingers tapping]
-[car thuds]
-[gasps]
[Larue] Gwen.
-[dramatic music playing]
-[shudders]
-[screams]
-What's wrong? What's wrong?
There's someone in there!
I swear to fucking God!
Adam. please!
We have to fucking go!
There's nothing in there.
What was it?
[Gwen] There's a woman in there.
I swear.
-Fuck this!
-[Adam] It's empty.
-[car engine starting]
-Gwen!
No! Gwen!
Hey!
Fuck!
[sinister music playing]
[music continues to play]
Hello. Elise.
-Clara.
-It's me. It's really me.
-Clara. I've missed you.
-Dig!
-Huh?
-What am I digging for?
-It's a surprise.
Oh. I love surprises.
I've missed you so much. Clara.
My heart aches for you.
-If only my heart still beat.
-[chuckles] Yes. if only.
Praise be. what is it?
It's a bone.
-A rib. I think.
-Wonderful. There must be more.
Lord. I hope so.
Shall I keep digging?
Did Joseph Smith have ten wives?
-[chuckles]
[sighs]
What'd you find?
That is most certainly a skull.
Aren't I pretty?
The prettiest.
-[soft music playing]
-[footsteps approaching]
[Clara] They're looking for you.
There's someone here
to take you away.
[footsteps receding]
I'm sorry for what I did.
I just... I panicked.
I didn't know what to do.
Do you hate me?
No.
Oh. no.
I'm thankful.
[chuckles]
Elise... [chuckles]
...what are you doing?
Elise.
[Clara groans]
[groans]
-[dramatic music playing]
-[Clara groans]
[ominous music playing]
[gasps]
No. no. no. no. no.
What did I do?
What did I do? Clara!
-[fingers tapping]
-[dramatic music playing]
Oh. it's you.
I remember you now.
You've been with me all along.
[tense music crescendo]
[music stops]
[gasps]
[groans]
[sighs]
-[brakes screeching]
-[gasps]
[handbrake ratcheting]
[seatbelt clicking]
[ominous music playing]
[shudders]
-[shudders. pants]
-[screams]
-[Gwen screams] Elise. please!
How does it feel?
Do you feel Heavenly Father?
[screams]
Elise. please.
I know what I've done
is unforgivable.
Do you really think an apology's
gonna make everything okay?
-Let go of me. Elise.
-[bone cracks]
-[screams]
[Adam] No. Elise. Hey!
Come on.
Elise.
Jesus.
Oh. your face. What happened?
-[grunts]
-What the hell are you doing?
-Elise. stop.
-[grunts]
[groans]
[door opens]
Help her.
Flesh give birth to flesh.
Spirit birth to spirit.
[grunts]
[Adam] My God!
Oh. shit. Oh. shit! No! No!
-Hey! Hey! Let me out!
-[door knocks]
Spare her. Larue.
Spirit birth to spirit.
-[breathes heavily]
-[door knocks]
Come on! [grunts]
In the name of Heavenly Father.
she is innocent.
Please.
Mercy is grace.
-[grunts]
-[groans]
Oh. no! No! [groans]
[screams. grunts]
Drown!
-No. no. no.
-[screams]
[Adam grunts]
[Hyrum groans]
[chuckles]
No. no. no. no!
Drown in it!
[chuckles]
-[Adam grunts] Shit!
-[door knocks]
Come on! [grunts]
[flesh tearing]
No. no! Please. Let me out!
[grunts]
[Elise] Adam.
Adam.
Elise.
Please.
I love you.
I love you more.
-[dramatic music playing]
-[screams]
[sighs]
[chuckles]
[sinister music playing]
[silence]
I trust you've all practised
holding your breath.
They are ready. Bishop Franklin.
May your souls
rejoice in heaven.
[dramatic music playing]